Hello wonderful people in this video we're going to put flaws in our level by the end of this video.
We're going to have a lot more detail on our level with these really cool looking floors and we'll be
able to change the floors just by painting them using tile maps.
And quickly use auto tiles to tweak our level to add for example this lovely janitor's closet which
needs a floor.
Like that.
We're going to start working towards light and shadow.
But for that to work we need a place for light to fall it's very hard to know if your light shadow working
less you can see where the light is and isn't.
So we need some floors to do that.
We're going to make some simple tile maps.
Now you might be thinking all we just learned how to auto tile.
Why not use auto tyre while my time being.
The short answer is we don't really need an auto tile.
There's no need for a bit mask here so we don't need the tile to change depending on what's around it.
That and we're only really going to have a few variations to use at any one time so we may as well just
paint them manually.
So nice and easy.
Let's get to it.
First thing I do is make a new scene.
I could use this waltzing.
However every tile is going to need a new Sprite.
So that's going to mess up what we've already done.
Not mess up necessarily but it doesn't feel quite right.
Anyway I've named this one walls using it for floors.
Not the best practice.
So let's make a brand new song and our brand new scene is going to have a note to d route.
Remember this won't work unless the root isn't too deep.
And we called this flaws and one of the do is go into graphics into PRNG into tiles.
And I'm just going select some floor tiles.
I'm actually going to select all of these wouldn't tiles like this and just drag them in and they all
come in as sprites.
I can go and rename if I want but they're all in there.
This is ready to go.
Now you might be thinking but why do we put them all underneath like this don't we want to you know
make sure that we can see them.
Not really.
It doesn't matter what the layout is here.
What matters is they're all here and that they're properly so there.
Speaking of properties we don't need collision maps and we don't need any kind of occlusion right.
The floor won't cast shadow.
So this really is ready to go.
So open a safe at inseams floors and seen convert to tile set in my tells its folder because this floor
tiles your sorry can be very clear this is a filter and I must use dot.
TR Yes.
Now back in level one a brain child node in this is another tile map and this one be called floors.
Almost ready to go back into my room folder.
It tile sets drag the floors into here and then they all are.
Now there's one more thing to do before we get started because right now the floors are over the wall
so I'm just going to put them right at the top of the level Remember unless we tell it otherwise.
Got us going assume that anything the bottom of the list is on top where Remember it is.
I'm standing right here with no ideas and I'm looking this way so this is the order I'm seeing things
and now I can just paint my level.
It doesn't matter if I get underneath the walls like this.
If I zoom out.
I have this nice floor effect.
I just left clicking to add things right clicking to take them away.
If I wanted to I could do it.
Nice little square like this and you like it phil..
And back to paint.
How so.
I now have the option of having different rooms having different floor covers.
So far so good.
Quick tip though.
I want this to look a little bit more realistic so one I do.
I'm actually going to put in some variations to the floor just every now and again.
Nothing major just a couple of little you know details.
Let's put some more in this one.
This and Abby Downey one isn't it.
I think I've got an I'll be done in detail.
There we go down in detail and the dark wood.
Now I'm actually probably not going to keep this looking like this but it's easy enough to change right
because now I've got my walls and let's say these pillars are in the wrong place because they actually
are.
They go like this.
Maybe I want a side room down here.
Well that's easy enough.
And you know what.
This is a reception room to someone's big office.
There's a nice big office and let's put some flooring in.
And he's going to outline like so and use paint fell.
Well not paint tile.
They're bigger.
Look at that.
Really quick an easy way to make detailed levels.
Right we can tweak we can change if I decide that this room needs to be a little bit bigger like so.
Just make sure you actually got this task light and I keep forgetting to do that.
Let's put some flooring there and you'll notice in the tiles as well.
And that was the wrong floor.
So it's easy enough to change.
That's this one isn't it.
There we go.
You'll notice by the way if we go back to the floor scene and into the graphics which I've put over
here in tiles We've also got some grass that you could use a carpet if you wanted to.
But I think at this point that's everything we really need to know.
So my challenge to you install some flooring I'd like you to put a floor in your level.
Feel free to tweak your walls and don't forget to add variety to your floor tiles every now and again
so it doesn't feel quite so repetitive.
So pause the video put the floors in and when you come back we'll close the video out.
Welcome back.
In this video we looked at how to work with tiles tile maps and auto tiles at the same time.
So really great work.
And we're now in a position where we can start adding lighting to level.
Don't forget the show we've got so far.
Love to see it so put it in the dischord group.
When the Facebook group or in the community forum and fantastic work and I'll see you in the next video.